# ADBS-BioinfoTools version 1.0 

## Introduction

ADBS-BioinfoTools is a collection of tools and scripts developed
for processing and analyzing datasets generated by the ADBS consortium.
ADBS (Accelerator program for Discovery in Brain disorders using Stem 
cells) is a scientific venture to understand mental illness by harnessing 
the power of genetics, genomics and stem cells technology. 

The Program is a collaborative initiative of three institutions from 
Bengaluru, India – the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative 
Medicine (inStem), the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) 
and the National Institute for Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS).
ADBS consortium generates large-scale whole genome, exome and 
transcriptome sequencing data by recruiting families with history of
neuropsychiatric disorders. The ADBS-BioinfoTools is a set of tools/scripts 
developed and being employed for analyzing these datasets. 


#### Please refer to the README file of individual tools for instructions and requirements.

#### Currently the following tools are available in ADBS-BioinfoTools:

#### 1. dendrogen ver1.0

dendrogen is a tool to perform clustering of samples based on the sharing of genetic variants among them. This tool can read thousands of VCFs (Variant call files) generated from whole genome or exome sequencing and cluster them based on the allelic sharing. A cluster dendrogram is generated that helps in visualizing	cluster groups.

#### 2. ViV ver1.0

ViV (Venn in VCFs) is a script to find the number of common genetic variants across multiple samples. This tool can simultaneously process thousands of VCF files obtained from whole genome/exome sequencing.


## LICENSE

MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


## Contributors and contact information

Ravi P More (ravimore7@yahoo.in)

Husayn Ahmed P (husaynp@ncbs.res.in)

Shweta Joshi (joshishweta94@gmail.com)

Mahendra Rao (rao1789@gmail.com)

Odity Mukherjee (omukherjee@ncbs.res.in)


## How to Cite?

Please cite the following article to acknowledge the use of ADBS-BioinfoTools:

Suhas Ganesh,  Husayn Ahmed P,  Ravi K Nadella, Ravi P More, Manasa Sheshadri, Biju Viswanath, Mahendra Rao, Sanjeev Jain, The ADBS consortium, Odity Mukherjee. 2018. Exome sequencing in families with severe mental illness identifies novel and rare variants in genes implicated in Mendelian neuropsychiatric syndromes. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12788


## ADBS Consortium Members

Mitradas M. Panicker, Upinder S. Bhalla, and Padinjat Raghu, National Centre for Biological Sciences – Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (NCBS – TIFR), Bengaluru, India. 

Odity Mukherjee, Sumantra Chattarji, and Mahendra Rao, Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine (InStem), Bengaluru, India.

Biju Viswanath, Naren P. Rao, Janardhanan C. Narayanaswamy, Palanimuthu T. Sivakumar, Arun Kandaswamy, Muralidharan Kesavan, Urvakhsh Meherwan Mehta, Ganesan Venkatasubramanian, John P. John, Meera Purushottam, Ramakrishnan Kannan, Bhupesh Mehta, Thennarasu Kandavel, Binukumar B., Jitender Saini, Deepak Jayarajan, Shyamsundar A., Jagadisha Thirthalli, Prabha S. Chandra, Bangalore N. Gangadhar, Pratima Murthy, Vivek Benegal, Mathew Varghese, Janardhan Y.C. Reddy, Sanjeev Jain, Sidney Moirangthem, and K.G. Vijay Kumar, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, India.

****
****
